Add Parse JSON Notices Section (#2669)
nasa-gcn/gcn.nasa.gov: app/routes/docs.client.samples.md

            continue
    print(message.value())
```

## Parsing JSON

GCN Notices for new missions are typically distributed in JSON format. This guide explains how to programmatically read the JSON schema.

Start with subscribing to a Kafka topic and parsing the JSON data

```python
from gcn_kafka import Consumer
import json

# Connect as a Kafka consumer
consumer = Consumer(client_id='fill me in', # Replace with your client ID
    client_secret='fill me in',             # Replace with your client secret

>     config={"message.max.bytes": 204194304},

Author: https://github.com/nasa-gcn/gcn.nasa.gov/pull/2873

)

# Subscribe to Kafka topic

> consumer.subscribe(['gcn.circulars'])

Author: ```suggestion
consumer.subscribe(['igwn.gwalert'])
```

# Continuously consume and parse JSON data
for message in consumer.consume(timeout=1):
    if message.error():
        print(message.error())
        continue

    # Print the topic and message ID
    print(f"topic={message.topic()}, offset={message.offset()}")

    # Kafka message value as a Base64-encoded string
    value = message.value()
```

> 

Reviewer: add example of a JSON input and show string output

## Decoding Embedded Data

The following code demonstrates how to process a Kafka message containing a `base64` encoded skymap, decode it, and save it as a `.fits` file. Python's built-in [`base64`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/base64.html#base64.b64encode) module provides the `b64decode` method to make this task simple. JSON serialization uses Unicode, can handle a wide range of characters, enabling reliable handling of encoded data.

```python
import base64

# Convert the Kafka message value to a string
value_str = value.decode("utf-8")

# Parse the JSON data
value_json = json.loads(value_str)

# Extract the Base64-encoded skymap
skymap_string = value_json["event"]["skymap"]

# Decode the Base64 string
decoded_bytes = base64.b64decode(skymap_string)

# Save the decoded data as a FITS file

> with open("skymap.fits", "wb") as fitsFile:
>     fitsFile.write(decoded_bytes)

Reviewer 2: Use PEP8 naming conventions:

```suggestion
with open("skymap.fits", "wb") as fits_file:
    fits_file.write(decoded_bytes)
```

```

If you want to include a FITS file in a Notice, you add a property to your schema definition in the following format:

```python
{
    type: 'string',
    contentEncoding: 'base64',
    contentMediaType: 'image/fits',
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: This code sample is valid as neither Python nor as JSON.

## Encoding Embedded Data

> In your data production pipeline, you can use the encoding steps to convert your file to a bytestring. This guide demonstrates how to encode a file (e.g., skymap.fits) into a `base64` encoded string and send it to a Kafka producer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For producer data production pipelines, the following encoding steps convert an input file to a bytestring. This guide demonstrates how to encode a file (e.g., skymap.fits) into a `base64` encoded string and submit it to the GCN Kafka broker.
```

```python
from gcn_kafka import Producer
import base64

# Set Kafka Topic and Producer Configuration

> TOPIC = "gcn.circulars"

Reviewer: This doesn't seem like the right topic.

> TOPIC = "gcn.circulars"

Author: ```suggestion
TOPIC = "igwn.gwalert"
```

> producer = Producer(client_id='fill me in', # Replace with your client ID

Reviewer 2: Indent consistently.

    client_secret='fill me in',             # Replace with your client secret

>     config={"message.max.bytes": 204194304},

Reviewer 2: Why do you need this?

)

data = {
    # ..
}

# Encode the file content in base64
with open("skymap.fits", "rb") as file:
    data["skymap"] = base64.b64encode(file.read())

# Convert the dictionary into bytes

> data_string = str(data).encode()

Reviewer 2: Incorrect, you need to convert it to JSON with `json.dumps`.

producer.produce(
    TOPIC,
    data_string,
)

producer.flush()
```

> See [non-JSON data](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/non_json_data.html) for more information.

Reviewer: more information about what?

> See [non-JSON data](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/non_json_data.html) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
JSON Schema enables the embedding of non-JSON media within strings by utilizing the `contentMediaType` and `contentEncoding` keywords, which facilitate the distribution of diverse data types. For further details, refer to [non-JSON data](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/non_json_data.html).
```

            continue
    print(message.value())
```

## Working With JSON Schema

For new missions, GCN Notices are preferably distributed in JSON format. This guide describes how to programmatically read the JSON schema.

## Parsing JSON

> Read the JSON data from [*.schema.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema) and [*.example.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema), which parses it into Python dictionaries.

Author: ```suggestion
Read the JSON data from [<sup>*</sup>.schema.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema) and [*.example.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema), which parses it into Python dictionaries.
```

> Read the JSON data from [*.schema.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema) and [*.example.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema), which parses it into Python dictionaries.

Author: ```suggestion
Read the JSON data from [$$^**^.schema.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema) and [*.example.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema), which parses it into Python dictionaries.
```

> Read the JSON data from [sample.schema.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema) and [sample.example.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema), which parses it into Python dictionaries.

Reviewer 2: The code sample below does not refer to a file called `sample.schema.json`.

> Read the JSON data from [sample.schema.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema) and [sample.example.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema), which parses it into Python dictionaries.

Author: ```suggestion
Read the JSON data from [*.schema.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema) and [*.example.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema), which parses it into Python dictionaries.
```

```python
from gcn_kafka import Consumer
import json

# Connect as a consumer
consumer = Consumer(client_id='fill me in',
                    client_secret='fill me in')

# Subscribe to topics and receive alerts
consumer.subscribe(['gcn.classic.voevent.FERMI_GBM_SUBTHRESH'])

# Continuously consume and parse messages as JSON
for message in consumer.consume(timeout=1):
    if not message.error():
        json_data = json.loads(message.value().decode('utf-8'))
        print("Received JSON Notice:", json_data)
```

## Encoding and Decoding of Embedded Data

> The following code sample shows how to encode/decode a file in Python. The [`base64`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/base64.html#base64.b64encode) package includes the methods `b64decode` and `b64encode` to make this task simple.

Reviewer 2: > The following code sample shows how to encode/decode a file in Python.

It doesn't show how to encode/decode _any_ file in Python; only how to encode/decode bytes to base64 for transfer over an ASCII medium.

Author: ```suggestion
```python
import base64

# Encode and parse the content of your file to a base64 encoded string
with open("path/to/your/file", 'rb') as file:
    encoded_string = base64.b64encode(file.read())

print(encoded_string)
# b'a1512dabc1b6adb3cd1b6dcb6d4c6......'

with open("path/to/encoded_file.txt", 'wb') as encoded_file:
    encoded_file.write(encoded_string)

# Decode and write the content to a local file:
with open("path/to/encoded_file.txt", 'rb') as encoded_file:
    decoded_data = base64.b64decode(encoded_file.read())

with open("path/to/destination/file", 'wb') as file:
    file.write(decoded_data)
```
```

Author: ```suggestion
The following code sample shows how to encode/decode a file in Python. The [`base64`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/base64.html#base64.b64encode) package includes the methods `b64decode` and `b64encode` to make this task simple.

```python
import base64
# Encode and parse the content of your file to a base64 encoded string
with open("path/to/your/file", 'rb') as file:
    encoded_string = base64.b64encode(file.read())
print(encoded_string)
# b'a1512dabc1b6adb3cd1b6dcb6d4c6......'
with open("path/to/encoded_file.txt", 'wb') as encoded_file:
    encoded_file.write(encoded_string)
# Decode and write the content to a local file:
with open("path/to/encoded_file.txt", 'rb') as encoded_file:
    decoded_data = base64.b64decode(encoded_file.read())
with open("path/to/destination/file", 'wb') as file:
    file.write(decoded_data)
```

@dakota002 could you please help for details?

```python
import base64

# Parse the content of your file to a base64 encoded string:
with open("path/to/your/file", 'rb') as file:
    encoded_string = base64.b64encode(file.read())

print(encoded_string)
# b'a1512dabc1b6adb3cd1b6dcb6d4c6......'

# Decode and write the content to a local file:
with open("path/to/destination/file", 'wb') as file:
    file.write(base64.b64decode(encoded_string))

```

If you want to include a FITS file in a Notice, you add a property to your schema definition in the following format:

```python
{
    type: 'string',
    contentEncoding: 'base64',
    contentMediaType: 'image/fits',
}
```

> In your data production pipeline, you can use the encoding steps to convert your file to a bytestring and set the value of the property to this bytestring. See [non-JSON data](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/non_json_data.html) for more information.

Reviewer 2: Great sample code, but not enough context here to understand what these instructions are for.

Author: I have tried to expand the instructions. 
Could you please elaborate more what's missing?

Reviewer 2: Pick an example of an actual notice type that contains embedded HEALPix data. Show how to:

- subscribe to and receive that notice type
- decode the Kafka message as JSON
- decode base64 text to bytes
- read the bytes as a FITS file

And then the user is ready to go on to the sky maps section! (I think that this is turning into a step-by-step tutorial, which will be awesome.)

Author: LVK JSON file is tested for decode base64 and write fits file.

            continue
    print(message.value())
```

## Working With JSON Schema

> For new missions, GCN Notices are preferably distributed in JSON format. This guide describes how to programmatically read the JSON schema.

Reviewer 2: Odd sentence structure.

Reviewer 2: Please fix...

Author: I was working on it locally, now fixed.

## Parsing JSON

Read the JSON data from [\*.schema.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema) and [\*.example.json](https://gcn.nasa.gov/docs/notices/schema), which parses it into Python dictionaries.

```python
from gcn_kafka import Consumer
import json

# Connect as a consumer
consumer = Consumer(client_id='fill me in',
                    client_secret='fill me in')

# Subscribe to topics and receive alerts

> consumer.subscribe(['gcn.classic.voevent.FERMI_GBM_SUBTHRESH'])

Reviewer 2: Please pick a topic that is in JSON format for this example.

# Continuously consume and parse messages as JSON
for message in consumer.consume(timeout=1):
    if not message.error():
        json_data = json.loads(message.value().decode('utf-8'))
        print("Received JSON Notice:", json_data)
```

> This code subscribes to a Kafka topic, consumes messages, decodes the bytes, and parses the JSON data into Python dictionaries.

Author: ```suggestion
This code subscribes to a Kafka topic, consumes the messages, and parses the JSON data into Python dictionaries.
```

## Encoding and Decoding of Embedded Data

> The following code demonstrates how to encode and decode bytes to `base64` for transfer over an ASCII medium. Python's built-in [`base64`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/base64.html#base64.b64encode) module provides the `b64decode` and `b64encode` methods to make this task simple.

Reviewer 2: JSON isn't serialized to an ASCII medium. It's Unicode.

```python
import base64

# Encode the content of a file to a Base64 string
with open("path/to/your/file", 'rb') as file:
    encoded_string = base64.b64encode(file.read())

print(encoded_string)

# Output: A Base64 encoded bytestring, e.g., b'a1512dabc1b6adb3cd1b6dcb6d4c6......'
with open("path/to/encoded_file.txt", 'wb') as encoded_file:
    encoded_file.write(encoded_string)

# Decode and write the content to a local file:
with open("path/to/encoded_file.txt", 'rb') as encoded_file:
    decoded_data = base64.b64decode(encoded_file.read())

with open("path/to/destination/file", 'wb') as file:
    file.write(decoded_data)

> ```

Reviewer 2: These examples are still disjointed from the rest of the documentation. Please show an example of embedding a FITS file in a JSON record.

            continue
    print(message.value())
```

## Working With JSON Schema

> For new missions, it is preferable to distribute GCN Notices in JSON format. This guide explains how to programmatically read the JSON schema.

Author: ```suggestion
GCN Notices for new missions are typically distributed in JSON format. This guide explains how to programmatically read the JSON schema.
```

            continue
    print(message.value())
```

## Parsing JSON

GCN Notices for new missions are typically distributed in JSON format. This guide explains how to programmatically read the JSON schema.

Start with subscribing to a Kafka topic and parsing the JSON data

```python
from gcn_kafka import Consumer
import json

# Connect as a Kafka consumer
consumer = Consumer(client_id='fill me in', # Replace with your client ID
    client_secret='fill me in',             # Replace with your client secret
    config={"message.max.bytes": 204194304},
)

# Subscribe to Kafka topic
consumer.subscribe(['gcn.circulars'])

# Continuously consume and parse JSON data
for message in consumer.consume(timeout=1):
    if message.error():
        print(message.error())
        continue

    # Print the topic and message ID
    print(f"topic={message.topic()}, offset={message.offset()}")

    # Kafka message value as a Base64-encoded string
    value = message.value()
```

## Decoding Embedded Data

> The following code demonstrates how to decode bytes to `base64` for transfer over an ASCII medium. Python's built-in [`base64`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/base64.html#base64.b64encode) module provides the `b64decode` and `b64encode` methods to make this task simple. Additionally, JSON is serialized with Unicode, not ASCII, requires the proper handling of non-ASCII characters when encoding and decoding data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following code demonstrates how to decode bytes to `base64` for transfer over an ASCII medium. Python's built-in [`base64`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/base64.html#base64.b64encode) module provides the `b64decode` and `b64encode` methods to make this task simple. JSON is serialized with Unicode, not ASCII, so it requires the proper handling of non-ASCII characters when encoding and decoding data.
```

    print(message.value())
```

## Parsing JSON

GCN Notices for new missions are typically distributed in JSON format. This guide explains how to programmatically read the JSON schema.

Start with subscribing to a Kafka topic and parsing the JSON data

```python
from gcn_kafka import Consumer
import json

# Connect as a Kafka consumer
consumer = Consumer(client_id='fill me in', # Replace with your client ID
    client_secret='fill me in',             # Replace with your client secret
    config={"message.max.bytes": 204194304},
)

# Subscribe to Kafka topic
consumer.subscribe(['gcn.circulars'])

# Continuously consume and parse JSON data
for message in consumer.consume(timeout=1):
    if message.error():
        print(message.error())
        continue

    # Print the topic and message ID
    print(f"topic={message.topic()}, offset={message.offset()}")

    # Kafka message value as a Base64-encoded string
    value = message.value()
```

## Decoding Embedded Data

> The following code demonstrates how to decode bytes to `base64` for transfer over an ASCII medium. Python's built-in [`base64`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/base64.html#base64.b64encode) module provides the `b64decode` and `b64encode` methods to make this task simple. Additionally, JSON is serialized with Unicode, not ASCII, requires the proper handling of non-ASCII characters when encoding and decoding data.

Reviewer 2: - You *en*code bytes to base64.
- JSON is not an ASCII medium. It's Unicode.

> In continuation of consumer loop, use the following functions to decode `base64` text to bytes, write into a `.fits` file

Reviewer 2: Incomplete sentence.

```python
import base64

# Convert the Kafka message value to a string

> value_str = value.decode("utf-8").strip()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
value_str = value.decode("utf-8")
```

# Parse the JSON data
value_json = json.loads(value_str)

# Extract the Base64-encoded skymap
skymap_string = value_json["event"]["skymap"]

# Function to validate Base64 strings
def is_base64(s):
    try:
        base64.b64decode(s, validate=True)
        return True
    except Exception:
        return False

# Validate the skymap string
if not is_base64(skymap_string):
    print("Invalid Base64 string.")

>     continue

Reviewer 2: Why is this necessary?

Reviewer 2: Please remove.
